Usage: hupmon [-1fh] [-F TTY] [-r SECONDS] [-t SECONDS] [COMMAND [ARGUMENT]...]
       hupmon --help

HUPMon is a tool created to detect terminal hangups on configurations where it
is not possible and/or practical to detect disconnects using hardware (e.g.
DTR, CTS, etc.). It does this by transmitting an ANSI escape sequence
requesting a Cursor Position Report (CPR). If HUPMon receives a response, the
terminal is considered online, but if there was no response, the terminal is
considered offline and a hangup signal is sent to the COMMAND. When using
one-shot mode, there are three strings that HUPMon may print:
"DEVICE_STATUS_UNKNOWN", if there was an error while attempting to query the
terminal; "DEVICE_ONLINE", if there was a response to the query; and
"DEVICE_OFFLINE" if there was no response.

Options (and Defaults):
  -1    One-shot mode; immediately query the terminal to determine if it is
        online and print the status to standard output. It is an error to
        specify a command when using this mode.
  -F PATH ("/dev/tty")
        Path of the terminal character device.
  -f    Enable flow-control-only mode. When this option is used, the terminal
        will never be queried to check if it is online, and HUPMon just acts as
        proxy between hardware that depends on software flow control and
        programs that either have poor implementations or none at all.
  -h    Hangup monitoring mode; run a command and periodically query the
        terminal to see if it is still online. If the terminal is offline, the
        subprocess will be sent a SIGHUP.
  -r SECONDS (0.200)
        Reply timeout in seconds; this is the total amount of time HUPMon will
        wait for a reply from the terminal after submitting a query. If flow
        control is enabled and the terminal responds with XOFF to temporarily
        suspend transmission, the deadline will be extended by 100
        milliseconds. This value must be at least 10 milliseconds (0.01). If
        HUPMon reports that a terminal is offline when it is not, it may not be
        responding to the query fast enough, and increasing this value may
        resolve the issue.
  -t SECONDS (10)
        This is the threshold of terminal inactivity in seconds before a query
        is sent. If the terminal is not offline, HUPMon will wait the same
        amount of time before submitting another query. This value must be at
        least 1 second.

Environment Variables:
- HUPMON_PID: Set to HUPMon's PID.
- HUPMON_TTY: Set to the path of HUPMon's controlling terminal.

Examples:
- Act as a flow control agent between GNU Screen and a terminal:

  $ hupmon -f screen

- Start a Bash login shell. The terminal will be polled after 60 seconds of
  inactivity, and Bash will be sent a SIGHUP if the terminal appears to be
  offline:

  $ exec hupmon -t 60 bash -l
